

### Choice of GUI library ###

BlueSky can be run either with 
- qt library as GUI library (`BlueSky.py`), or
- pygame as GUI library (`BlueSky_pygame.py`). 

The *qt* version of BlueSky (`BlueSky.py`) is recommended as it uses separate 'threads' for the simulation computations and the visuals on thescreen (i.e., the graphical user interface). This means that the simulation calculations and the graphics are completely decoupled,reducing the load on your computers CPU. This in turn makes the simulation run faster.

The graphics/visuals are in fact running on your graphics card using openGL. This requires a graphics
card that supports the required versions of *pyqt* (pyqt4 or pyqt5). On older computers with Intel CPUs and with 'integrated graphics' only (no dedicated GPU), these versions of pyqt are not supported.

If your graphics chip is not supported, you have to use the *pygame* version of BlueSky (`BlueSky_pygame.py`). It works basically the same as the *qt* version, but both graphics and simulation computations are performed on the CPU.
 
To find out which version works for you, run `check.py`. This script will check if the *qt* version will work for you. Else, the *pygame* version will be used, by accordingly changing the value of the `gui` variable in the `settings.cfg` file which houses the basic simulation parameters.


### Debugging multi-threaded applications ###
2.  As the *qt* version is multi-threaded, the normal python debugger
    doesn't work as normal as it doesn't know what to do with the
    different threads. However, there is a simple workaround. Simply import the debugger module
    (`import pdb`), and use the code
    `pdb.set_trace()` at the point you want to enter the python
    debugger. After that the usual debugger commands all work!

### BlueSky Settings ###
The basic simulation parameters, such as the simulation time-step dt (`simdt`), can be specified in the file `settings.cfg`, which is located in the home folder. These parameters can be changed to your desired values.

 1.  The script `settings.py` (located in `./bluesky`) looks inside `setings.cfg`
        file and updates simulation parameters if they have been changed
        from default values.

 2.  The parameters in the `settings.py` are used to initialize member
        variables of the BlueSky objects, i.e., **the variables in
        settings.py are NOT global variables**.

3.  Therefore, if you want to use any of these parameters in your code, use `...import settings` (make sure you get the path to `settings.py` right). Then, to use the simulation dt, for example use `settings.simdt` in your code.

### Use of modules ###
The `__init__.py` script in each BlueSky Module converts all the
    scripts in that folder to a 'package'. This means that python can
    treat a BlueSky module folder as a python script, making it possible
    to import the classes or functions in a module much more easily e.g.
    ```python
    from bluesky.traf import Navdatabase
    ```
    instead of 

    ```python
    from bluesky.traf.navdb import Navdatabase
    ```
